---
layout:     post
title:      My First Post 
mathjax:    true
---

## Hey

$$
\begin{align*}
  & \phi(x,y) = \phi \left(\sum_{i=1}^n x_ie_i, \sum_{j=1}^n y_je_j \right)
  = \sum_{i=1}^n \sum_{j=1}^n x_i y_j \phi(e_i, e_j) = \\
  & (x_1, \ldots, x_n) \left( \begin{array}{ccc}
      \phi(e_1, e_1) & \cdots & \phi(e_1, e_n) \\
      \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
      \phi(e_n, e_1) & \cdots & \phi(e_n, e_n)
    \end{array} \right)
  \left( \begin{array}{c}
      y_1 \\
      \vdots \\
      y_n
    \end{array} \right)
\end{align*}
$$

## References
[1]. Arora, S., Babai, L., Stern, J., and Sweedyk, Z. The hardness of approximate optima in lattices, codes, and systems of linear equations. In Foundations of Computer Science, 1993. Proceedings., 34th Annual Symposium on (1993), IEEE, pp. 724–733.
[2]. Bartlett, P. L., Jordan, M. I., and McAuliffe, J. D. Convexity, classification, and risk bounds. Journal of the American Statistical Association 101, 473 (2006), 138–156.
[3]. Boucheron, S., Bousquet, O., and Lugosi, G. Theory of classification: A survey of some recent advances. ESAIM: probability and statistics 9 (2005), 323–375.
[4]. Breiman, L., et al. Statistical modeling: The two cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author). Statistical science 16, 3 (2001), 199–231.
[5]. Devroye, L., Györfi, L., and Lugosi, G. A probabilistic theory of pattern recognition, vol. 31. Springer Science & Business Media, 2013.
[6]. Dudley, R. M. Uniform Central Limit Theorems, 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2014.
[7]. Shalev-Shwartz, S., and Ben-David, S. Understanding machine learning: From theory to algorithms. Cambridge university press, 2014.
[8]. Tsiatis, A. Semiparametric theory and missing data. Springer Science & Business Media, 2007.
[9]. Valiant, L. G. A theory of the learnable. Communications of the ACM 27, 11 (1984), 1134–1142.
[10]. Van der Vaart, A. W. Asymptotic statistics, vol. 3. Cambridge university press, 2000.
[11]. van der Vaart, A. W., and Wellner, J. A. Weak Convergence and Empirical Processes. Springer-Verlag, New York, 1996.
[12]. Vershynin, R. High-Dimensional Probability.
