---
layout:     post
title:      "A crude intro to semiparametric statistics: part 0"
mathjax:    true
author:     Ruofan Wu
summary:    This is a brief overview of what I've been struggling with for 5 years
---
## Materials
There’re basically 4 relatively popular materials that provides methodological aspects of semiparametric statistics  

> **Bickel, Klaassen, Ritov & Wellner [2]** the magnum opus on semiparametric statistics, and also one of the most sophisticated books in modern statistics. Peter Bickel called this book as something he’s still proud of [1], and even after over 25 years of publication, there are not many extra developments over this field, and those developments were contributed by mainly masters in this field like Jamie Robbins or van der Vaart. The book is written in a very mathematically intense manner, and was indeed a disaster during my first attempt to read it.  

> **Tsiatis [4]** This is a much lighter exposition than BKRW, which is suitable for graduate students to get a first picture on what semiparametrics is talking about. This was our introductory material, and also highly advocated by professor Zhiliang Ying for an introductory course. This book reflects Tsiatis’s mastery, however the arguments therein appears somehow too loose for academic illustrations. This kind of phenomenon happens not that often, since semiparametric paradigm requires a very sophisticated starting point that goes much beyond undergraduate intros about mathematical statistics  

> **van der Vaart [6]** is a lecture notes by the great van der Vaart, essentially an enlarged, and self contained version of the last chapter of his acclaimed book [5]. van der Vaart’s style inherits from works by Le Cam, but a little bit more application targeted. This series of lecture notes is perhaps the most useful source for proof writing.  


> **Kosorok [3]** is a user-friendly summary of van der Vaart’s series of works (including the "bible on asymptotics" [7]) and semiparametric scenarios, , and some extended material on modern semiparametric statistics. If one’s managed to understand van der Vaart’s ideas, it maybe not necessary for consulting this book.  


I will take the heuristics from [4], and introduce specific concepts in a more rigorous manner by referring to [2] and [6]. I will not use [3] since I’ve never carefully read it.

## Roadmap  

as a blog-post level introduction I won’t make everything extremely precise but try to describe the theoretical picture in a readable way, in 3 consecutive posts:  
**Parameterization & Finite dimensional story** all statistics students encounter the notion of a probabilistic model in their first course on statistics, and elementary statistical modeling use the term parameter to characterize a model, this is perfectly fine for practical understanding, but too loose for a rigorous explanation of what is a model. I shall make clear the formal definition of what is a model and why we need good parameterizations, and restate some elementary facts in finite dimensional models, this is standard treatment as in [2, Chapter 2] or [4, Chapter 3]  
**Road to infinite dimensionality: differentiable paths, tangent spaces and information bounds** of euclidean parameters once finite dimensional case is handled, we could move on to the world of infinite dimensions. Here we shall state what is a semiparametric statistical model, its potential usage and why a theoretical analysis of such models are kinda involved. Specifically, we give the definition of pathwise differentiability and tangent spaces and sets in those statistical models, and generalize the finite dimensional results to an infinite dimensional setup where the parameter of interest is euclidean.  
**Information calculus, and establishment of semiparametric efficiencies** once familiar with basic concepts in semiparametric paradigm, applicative tools shall be represented at least for some typical problems, this is excellently illustrated using the case of Cox model by van der Vaart in [6]. I cannot think of a better example, and I would summarize his analytical procedure, really beautiful.  

## References  

[1] Bickel, P. J. Statistics before and after my copss prize. Past, Present, and Future of Statistical Science (2014), 59.  
[2] Bickel, P. J., Klaassen, C. A., Ritov, Y., and Wellner, J. A. Efficient and Adaptive Estimation for Semiparametric Models. The Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore, 1993.  
[3] Kosorok, M. R. Introduction to empirical processes and semiparametric inference. Springer, 2008.  
[4] Tsiatis, A. Semiparametric theory and missing data. Springer Science & Business Media, 2007.  
[5] Van der Vaart, A. W. Asymptotic statistics, vol. 3. Cambridge university press, 2000.  
[6] van der Vaart, A. W. Semiparametric statistics. In Lectures on Probability Theory and Statistics, P. Bernard, Ed., vol. 1781 of Lecture Notes in Math. Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 2002, ch. Part III, pp. 331–457. École d’Eté de Probabilités de Saint-Flour XXIX-1999.  
[7] van der Vaart, A. W., and Wellner, J. A. Weak Convergence and Empirical Processes. Springer-Verlag, New York, 1996.